All right, in this lesson, I'd like us to practice creating a view.
And in this case, the view will be for a single job.
It's going to be a page that displays the details of a specific job.
And the real reason we're doing this is so that I can show you the idea of a dynamic URL that has a
dynamic segment of content.
So let me show you what I mean here.
Here I am on the official Google Careers website, and if I go to the jobs page, you'll notice we go
to slash jobs, slash results.
And that's exactly what we have in our app.
And here we have a whole bunch of jobs listed.
In fact, more than 5000 of them.
Now, notice what happens to the path in the URL.
When I click into a job, I'm going to click into this one and you'll see it's going to be slash jobs,
slash results followed by this section of the URL.
And it's basically a unique identifier, some kind of number followed by the title of the job.
Now, notice what happens when I navigate to the next job, for example, in this list?
Well, we're still going to keep the core URL slash job, slash results, but then we're simply going
to swap the ID, the job ID that appears immediately after that prefix.
And that applies as I keep going to the next couple of jobs, you'll see that ID is switching.
So here's the question I have for you.
If this site has 5000 jobs, are we supposed to create 5000 different URLs in order to render 5000 of
the same component over and over again?
Well, obviously, that is not the right idea.
That is not scalable, that is exhausting.
So we need some way in Vue router to capture this idea of having a URL that has some kind of dynamic
content, basically a URL that is slash jobs, slash results, followed by some kind of identifier that
we cannot know in advance.
And then for that single root, which has a dynamic section, we can tell Vue router to mount the same
component.
All right.
Now, if you're curious more about how something like this works in the real world, the way it works
is whenever we access one of these components and the URL changes, what the page does is it takes this
unique identifier and it makes an API request to the backend to fetch data about this job.
And that way the URL stays the same when it switches, the page simply makes a new request to get the
new IDs job and then rebuilds the page with the new information that it gets.
So the URL is different technically from page to page, but the structure of it is the same.
And so we only need one URL in our view router to configure this logic.
So let me transition to the code and the first thing I want to do is to create a view component.
And when I say view, I mean an actual component in our views folder and it's going to represent a single
job page.
So a page where the user can go to see the information about one job in our system.
So I'm going to create that component here.
I'm going to call it job view, dot view.
And of course, I'm going to wire it up with a template tag right here.
Let me zoom in a little bit for you.
There we go.
And for now, I'll just put a div here that says job page as simple as I can do.
We'll add a script tag and we'll export default a JavaScript object with a name property set to job
view.
We don't really care about this view right now.
We may not even worry about it throughout the course.
I just need some kind of view, some kind of component that I can tell a view or to render any given
room.
So let's now head into our router index tags file.
And as we know here, we have an array of routes and we've now added a new view to our app.
So we need to import it into the file and then create a new route for it.
So let's begin by importing it right here.
We're going to import our new job view component, and that is going to come from the source directory
view's job view.
And let me add on that view extension to be consistent with the ones above.
And then, of course, I need to create a new route object.
So right here at the very end, I'll do that.
And the first property, as always, is the path we know that we always want to begin with.
Jobs slash, results slash.
And here's where we get to that dynamic piece of content.
Right?
We need to tell you, router, that I need you to match anything after this slash it can be anything
can be a job slash result slash one or slash two or slash some kind of collection of characters.
We don't want a hard code, a value like jobs of results.
We want to tell the router that it's something dynamic, something variable, something that has the
potential to change.
But we still need it to recognize that.
So the way we do that is with a colon followed by an identifier, and that identifier is up to you.
It's almost you can think of it like assigning a variable to this section of the URL.
And what Vue router is going to do is give us access to this piece of information in the root object
that every component has access to via this dot root.
So we can call this whatever you want.
I think a good name or identifier to use here is ID because it is the idea of a job.
So this section and its name is up to you.
You can do colon ID, you can do colon job ID, it's up to you.
Just know that whatever you choose here is important because it will be the property that will be available
to you on the this dot root object, which we'll see in the next lesson.
So now Vue will match anything after slash job slash results and whatever it is here, let's say it's
the character.
One, two, three.
It's going to store that in a property called ID and if it's ABC, then it's going to store that ABC
value in our ID property.
And remember, you have to put a colon because obviously if you do not put a colon, then you is going
to think the actual path is slash jobs, slash results, slash ID, and it's not actually the letters
ID, it is a dynamic variable name called ID that we have decided to make dynamic.
And the colon is the key symbol that tells you that that is the case.
All right.
So we also need tumor properties here.
Of course, we need a name for this path.
I'm just going to call it job listing, because that's what it does.
It shows a single job listing.
And then, of course, the starter component that's going to kick everything off that our router view
will render below the main NAV.
And of course it is our new job view component that we just created and import it.
All right.
So that is a good place to leave off.
In the very next lesson, we're going to see how we can access this dynamic ID variable in our root
object.